Build and Test Best Practices (#1313)
zowe/community: Technical-Steering-Committee/best-practices/build-and-test.md

# Build and Test

## Build

> If a Zowe component or a repository requires source code compilation, this repository should contain automated build system able to compile the software from source, automatically handle dependencies and produce installation packages. The build tools in use should be only FLOSS, free to acquire and use for any purposes. It is recommended to select tools already popular within Zowe, such as Gradle, npm, GitHub Actions, etc. For specific needs, it is possible to select alternatives, given they provide unique and necessary advantages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a Zowe component or a repository requires source code processing, this repository should contain scripts and configurations for build automation tools able to to process the source code, handle dependencies, build project artifacts, perform tests and produce installation packages. The build automation tools in use should be only FLOSS, free to acquire and use for any purposes. It is recommended to select tools already popular within Zowe, such as Gradle, npm, GitHub Actions, etc. For specific needs, it is possible to select alternatives, given they provide unique and necessary advantages.
```

## Test

> Every Zowe component or repository should contain an automated test suit that is executed on every change or code build. Ideally the automated test suit should consist of the following categories of tests - unit tests, integration tests and system tests. The tests should cover both functional, i.e. validating a feature functionality, as well as non-functional, i.e. performance, reliability, resilience, etc. 

Reviewer: May be the performance, reliability and resilience testing should be stated as a recommendation only.

The previous sentence we says:  ."..repository SHOULD contain automated tests, which .... SHOULD consist of ..." and then "The  tests SHOULD cover ..... as well performance, .....".

What I mean is, that the first and second SHOULD are like hard requirements or a MUST, while the second SHOULD is a recommendation.
 
The comment is about the wording. No discussion that it is a best practice to cover also non-functional aspects of the SW.

Author: This is a best practices document, it is not a condition for a repository being part of Zowe. I wouldn't change the wording. Maybe we could ask for a second opinion? @balhar-jakub

Reviewer 2: @boris-bc While we are talking about Best practices, the following of them is actually required for the squads. So we should keep this in mind.

Author: OK, so what change would you suggest to the text in question?

## Code Analysis

> It is recommended, whenever reasonable, each repository to make use of static code analysis and vulnerability scans per tools availability and requirement. For repositories that contain mainly Java and/or Javascript code, for example, the recommendation is to enable Sonarcloud scans for each change. All reported issues should be addressed either by resolving them or by indicating an exception justification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is recommended, each repository to make use of static code analysis and vulnerability scans per tools availability and requirement. For repositories that contain mainly Java and/or Javascript code, for example, the recommendation is to enable Sonarcloud scans for each change. All reported issues should be addressed either by resolving them or by indicating an exception justification and a mitigation plan.
```

> It is recommended, whenever reasonable, each repository to make use of static code analysis and vulnerability scans per tools availability and requirement. For repositories that contain mainly Java and/or Javascript code, for example, the recommendation is to enable Sonarcloud scans for each change. All reported issues should be addressed either by resolving them or by indicating an exception justification.

Reviewer 2: We are gradually moving to the requirement to do so. Actually, we already agreed that each squad needs to select and use at least one of such tools. We recommend t depend either on SonarCloud or CodeQL. One of the benefits of codeQL is that it is relatively easy to create and share new rules specific to our understanding of Zowe problems. 

As for the exception justification, I believe we will need to work with Linux Foundation in order to gain access to administrator interface in SonarCloud to keep the information about exceptions there.

## Quality Gate

> Every change made in Zowe component or a repository should only be introduced together with a suit of corresponding tests. Every change made in a Zowe component or a repository will require the execution of any and all relevant regression testing in depending or dependable components. A change cannot be introduced if any of the new or existing tests fail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every change made in Zowe component or a repository should only be introduced together with a suit of corresponding tests. Every change made in a Zowe component or a repository will require the execution of any and all relevant regression testing in dependent components. A change cannot be merged if any of the new or existing tests fail.
```

> Every change made in Zowe component or a repository should only be introduced together with a suit of corresponding tests. Every change made in a Zowe component or a repository will require the execution of any and all relevant regression testing in depending or dependable components. A change cannot be introduced if any of the new or existing tests fail.

Reviewer 2: We actually require 80% of coverage on all code that is part of Zowe. So for this part we can be more strict here.
